`DEALLOCATING` is an irreversible server state (#2500)
neo4j/docs-operations: modules/ROOT/pages/clustering/servers.adoc

[[deallocating-state]]
=== Deallocating state

A server in a deallocating state means that it can no longer host databases.
It may be that the server is no longer needed and you want to remove it from the cluster.
The command `DEALLOCATE DATABASE[S] FROM SERVER[S] _server_[,...]` is used to transition servers to the _Deallocating_ state, reallocating all their hosted databases to other servers in the cluster.
[WARNING]
====
This state is *irreversible*.

> Once a server is in a deallocating state, it subsequently cannot have databases allocated to it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once a server is in a deallocating state, it subsequently cannot have databases allocated to it.

If you want to deallocate databases from a server in a *reversible manner*, see xref:clustering/databases.adoc#deallocate-databases[Deallocate databases] for more information.
```

====

> Note, if you wish to deallocate databases from a server in a reversible manner then see xref:clustering/databases.adoc#deallocate-databases[Deallocate databases] for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> When a server is no longer needed, it cannot be removed from the cluster while it is still allocated to host any databases.

Reviewer: I think we should shift the focus of this section to the state rather than the command for deallocating databases. How about something like this:
```suggestion
A server in a _deallocating_ state is transitioning to a state where it can no longer host databases.
This means that a server is no longer needed, and you want to remove it from the cluster.
```

> The command `DEALLOCATE DATABASE[S] FROM SERVER[S] _server_[,...]` is used to transition servers to the _Deallocating_ state, reallocating all their hosted databases to other servers in the cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> This is an irreversible state and servers which are deallocating will not have any further databases allocated to them.

Reviewer: How about:
```suggestion
[WARNING]
====
This state is *irreversible*.
Once a server is in a deallocating state, it cannot be reallocated to host databases again.
====
```

> Note, if you wish to deallocate databases from a server in a reversible manner then see xref:clustering/databases.adoc#deallocate-databases[Deallocate databases] for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you still want to deallocate all databases from a server and reallocate them to other servers in the cluster, you can use the command `DEALLOCATE DATABASE[S] FROM SERVER[S] _server_[,...]`.
For details, see xref:clustering/databases.adoc#deallocate-databases[Deallocate databases].
```
